https://chatbotsmagazine.com/rose-in-the-loebner-chatbot-competition-an-interview-with-bruce-wilcox-eac0a8b61647
Rose in the Loebner Chatbot Competition: An Interview with Bruce Wilcox of Brillig Understanding (Part of the Bot Master Builders Series)
A chatbot that consistently place 1st of 2nd place in many Loebner Competition (the "Turing Test") is being created by a couple, one writer, one programmer (creator of ChatScript). A lot of human testing (looking at logs) is required. (_Automated regression test_ to test rose (?))

Loebner test of human knowledge: a question or remember something (based on all past questions _Chatterbox Challenge Chatbot Battles_)?
Finals: judge can do anything.

ChatScript is mostly IF/THEn rules organised into topics linked to keywords.
Can tell agreement/disagreement, question/answer ratio.

"Go to a movie or book — authors have created a character with a consistent of set of information about themselves, a worldview.  [...] The problem with CleverBot it that it’s a random mishmash. So you need to write consistent personalities."

Competition is made on data persistence.

_"Pronoun resolution"_ seems to be a problem?
"There’s no ideal way to do this. Two approaches are often taken: 1) look at your own statement to figure out the pronoun, pre-path referencing. 2) post-path referencing."

Topics are chosen by how many keywords overlap.

There are prefabricated sequences called Gambit, that, if the user just agrees with what is said, triggers the whole sequence volley.
Ask a question, receive answer and give your answer to the same question too.

Memory-wise,
Some questions have a fixed answer.
Some questions can be answered only once gambits) so that the bot doesn't repeat itself. "Self-extinguishing"
Some things can be put into a JSON structure for later use.
The last 20 things the user said is recorded.

Mangled language is dealt with with a spelling corrector.
There are lemma patterns for variations.


Chatscript comes with 1400 predefined concepts.
WordNet ontology is used for noun.
"Their noun ontology is often good, but other times it is not what I would want, and their non-noun ontologies are poor. Concepts and hierarchies work great — WordNet only works for nouns, not verbs or adverbs. It only has a single hierarchy — for dog would have canine to mammal, but not “other household pets.”"

For chatscript, a concept is a set of words and phrases.
"Fact triples, sibject-verb-object (SVO) fixed verb and ordering of fact."
Graph queries on simple structures.


Thoughts on neural nets:
Google's TensorFLow, Random Decision Forests? (interviewer)
>Small companies don’t have the data. So it’s much faster to write a pattern to cover a range of sentences, include all the synonyms. 

To date, machine learning bots are not good enough. More data needed.

Have a lot of testers is recommended. But more than hundred are unmanageable.

Other early Loebner engines : Personality Forge, Facade
Mitsuku (AIML) is good for stimulus/response
"Pandorabots is not AIML, it has extensions"

Other people:
Steve Worswick "he’s stuck in the wrong pond."
"Mark Meadows at Botanic.IO uses ChatScript to create chatbots for business "
David Coline at Sapientx - chat with the images
YourMD ChatScript client, "top rated for diagnostic". "Remap medical words to standard NIH terms"
Kore.ai ChatScript enterprise bots, outperforming machine learning bots

